t.rast.aggregate.seasons: new addon for GRASS 8 (#1010)
OSGeo/grass-addons: src/temporal/t.rast.aggregate.seasons/t.rast.aggregate.seasons.md

## DESCRIPTION

**t.rast.aggregate.seasons** aggregates an input space time raster dataset

> at astronomical or meteorological seasons level using a statistical method

Reviewer: ```suggestion
astronomical or meteorological seasons using a statistical method
```

selected by the user. It uses
[t.rast.aggregate.ds](https://grass.osgeo.org/grass-stable/manuals/t.rast.aggregate.ds.html)
to detect and copy the seasons granularity.

Astronomical seasons are defined as:

* *Spring* 20 March - 21 June
* *Summer* 21 June - 20 September
* *Autumn* 20 September - 21 December
* *Winter* 21 December - 20 March (following year)

Meteorological seasons are defined as:

* *Spring* 1 March - 31 May
* *Summer* 1 June - 30 August
* *Autumn* 1 September - 30 November
* *Winter* 1 December - 28/29 Februay (following year)

Using the *output* option it will create a unified space time raster dataset

> with the name set in this option, otherwise it will create a space time raster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the *output* option, the tool will create a single unified space time raster dataset
with the name provided, otherwise it will create a space time raster
```

dataset for each year in the input space time raster dataset.

## EXAMPLES

Calculate astronomical seasonal data from an input space time raster dataset

> with a unified output space time raster dataset

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Aggregate the input space-time raster dataset into astronomical seasons and create a unified output space-time raster dataset
```

```bash
t.rast.aggregate.seasons input=mystrds basename=mystrds_seasons output=outstrds
```

Calculate meteorologica seasonal data from an input space time raster dataset

> with a unified output space time raster dataset for a selected year

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Aggregate the input space-time raster dataset into meteorological seasons and create an output space-time raster dataset for a selected year
```

```bash
t.rast.aggregate.seasons -m input=mystrds basename=mystrds_seasons_meteo \
    output=outstrds_meteo year=2014
```

## NOTES

If one of the season is not fully covered by the input space time raster

> dataset that season will not be created by the module. For example if you have

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If one of the seasons is not fully covered by the input space time raster
dataset, that season will not be created by the tool. For example if you have
```

a daily space time raster dataset for just one year it will create only raster
maps for 3 seasons (Spring, Summer, Autumn), the Winter one will be avoided
since your input space time raster dataset as data only until the end of the

> year but it miss the data from January to March.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
maps for 3 seasons (Spring, Summer, Autumn), the Winter will be avoided
since your input dataset has data only until the end of the
year but it misses the data from January to March.
```
